# 418 Final Project - Earthquake Prediction
## Shiny App Publishing Issues

>Unfortunately, I was unable to publish to shiny.io because I ran into a number of problems once I finally reached this step.  As of right now, my shiny app seems to only work when it's being ran locally (i.e. when I'm running it from RStudio) and whenever I try to publish there is some sort of error.  However, I had finally finished the app and gotten it how I wanted it, but ran into these issues publishing when approaching the deadline.  I tried both methods of publishing that were provided in the chapter, as well as numerous different methods online to try to resolve this problem.  There was a little bit less than a week when this issue came up, and since then I have done an extensive amount of research online and attempted many different fixes.  These "fixes" only lead to new error messages, and in the time span I was left with I was unable to find a solution.  After spending a few days on this, I came across a couple reasons as to why this may be happening.  For some reason, what I did may or may not be compatible with shinyapps.io, even though it runs perfectly fine on my computer.  This could be due to some packages I decided to use when I started my code, the data file that I read in to my code, directory issues, and a number of different things that I came across researching.  I tried everything from creating a single app.R file to starting a new project as a shiny file, and pretty much every fix that I found on the internet, but nothing has worked for me.  I had spent too much time getting my app how I wanted it to look and doing what I wanted to do in the server file for me to not use this code, so unfortunately I have this app that works locally and wouldn't publish. 

## App Overview

>Data was read in with a .csv file from United States Geological Survey (USGS).  The first tab in the app was dedicated to displaying the dataset for all the earthquakes that USGS provides.  It shows things like specific values for the location and time of the earthquake as well as the name of the place the earthquake happened.  Multiple datasets were available through USGS, and one of these datasets included significant earthquakes in the last month.  I found on their website that this significance is calculated by adding the maximum of magnitude and paper signicance with the dyfi significance.  Using this dataset, I added another tab on the app that displays essentially the same things as the first dataset, but only showing significant earthquakes over the past 30 days.  As far as predicting earthquakes goes, it is important to note that an exact science for predicting earthquakes isn't necessarily available with today's modern technologies.  Earthquakes are highly unpredictable, as are many other natural disasters.  However, there are many different methods and techniques used to at least try and provide an accurate prediction for things like natural disasters and in this case earthquakes.  The basic method of approach was a usage of time series analysis, which actually had some friendly packages for use in R programming.  Usually, time series data is a sequence recorded at equal intervals of time.  Time series models are particularly good at picking up trends and patterns, and for that reason is very popular and widely used for observing how given variables change over time and predicting things like weather. In this case, the ARIMA and spectral time series techniques were applied to produce graphs and make predictions.  ARIMA, or autoregressive integrated moving average, is used to measure events that happen over a period of time.  In this case, the ARIMA model is able to use past earthquake data to forecast future earthquake data.  In addition, ACF (autocorrelation) and PACF (partial autocorrelation) models were created to visually display the correlation between data points at a given time.  These both show correlation between time series values, where the PACF accounts for the values in between the intervals.  Spectral analysis, much like the ARIMA model, is able to use past earthquake data to forecast future eathquake data.  Essentially, it measures the strength of periodic components of a signal at different frequencies and uses the Fourier transform to decompose waveforms into usable frequencies.  Also, a periodogram was produced to visually display the dominant periods (or frequencies) of this time series.  Tabs were created in the shiny app for each of the time series techniques, as well as corresponding dropdown tabs for the respective foreasting and graphs.
